% Brian Buccola
% Brian Buccola
%

About
-----

I am a Ph.D. student in linguistics at [McGill University][dept]. My research
interests primarily include formal semantics, pragmatics, phonology, and
computational linguistics.

My dissertation, supervised by [Luis Alonso-Ovalle][lao] and [Bernhard
Schwarz][bs], investigates the source of downward monotonicity (DM) of modified
numerals like *less than five*. The standard claim is that the DM we
intuitively observe in *Less than five dogs barked* is due primarily to the
lexical meaning of *less than*, which involves some standard kind of maximality
operator that applies obligatorily. I argue for a more fine-grained view: DM
arises from a special interaction between not only the lexical semantics of the
numeral modifier and a (potentially non-lexical and optional) maximality
operator, but also the distributivity properties of the nominal and verbal
predicates it combines with and an operation of existential closure. When this
interaction does not obtain, e.g. when one of the predicates is
non-distributive (*Less than five guests drank more than twenty beers*), and/or
when the sentence is interpreted generically instead of existentially (*Less
than five students could carry that piano upstairs*), then *less than five*
actually behaves upward monotonically.

In addition to my doctoral research, I have also worked on ignorance inferences
associated with superlative numeral/scalar modifiers like *at least* and *at
most*, as well as on the semantic and pragmatic differences between *at most*
and *up to*.

I am also interested in the formal properties of formal grammars. I have worked
in particular on the differences in generative capacity between Optimality
Theory and ordered rewrite rules.

Apart from linguistics, I enjoy tinkering with Linux, learning about functional
programming (like Haskell), and (when I have time) brewing beer. I have a
[personal blog][blog] where I write about language, math, Linux, and other
random stuff that comes to mind.

[dept]: http://www.mcgill.ca/linguistics/ "McGill linguistics department"
[lao]:  http://people.linguistics.mcgill.ca/~luis.alonso-ovalle/ "Luis Alonso-Ovalle"
[bs]:   http://webpages.mcgill.ca/staff/group4/bschwa8/web/ "Bernhard Schwarz"
[blog]: http://brianbuccola.github.io/ "Personal blog"

<!--Upcoming/Recent-->
